# **The Crux of the Rux**

## Is it hurling or rugby that’s gracing the summers turfs these days? Sure, skill levels with the stick have probably increased, especially in terms of ball control, in recent years but some aspects of the modern game leave much to be desired. It is generally agreed that it is the speed of the hurling game that sets it apart from other field games or indeed any game so why do we allow these situations to arise where groups of men congregate around the sliothar with their hurleys held like frying pans in a bid to roll lift it into their hands – the hurling ruc. If successful, the next step is to try to barge past the same group of men – in a rule biding fashion – and solo or handpass or strike – to a teammate. This seems to be the crucial aspect – possession at all costs. It can be awful to look at though with some of these rucs taking up to a minute to sort out. One minute out of the seventy may not seem much but alot can happen in one minutes hurling – and there can be a number of these rucs in a match.

## This possession at all costs /ruc aspect of the game is sounding the death knell for one which lent itself to the speed and thrill-a-minute and end-to-end unfolding of the game. How many times has the advid supporter arrived 2-3 minutes late at a venue to hear waves of cheering traversing the field. That same supporter has, on many of these occasions, finally entered the stadium after some frantic fumbling with regard to the entrance fee or ticket on the fourth of fifth minute to find that neither team had registered a score at that point – the cheering had been in appreciation of the speed and skill of the players, the shoulder to shoulder tussles and rapid movement of the sliothar up and down the park – it wasn’t score dependent.
